
# Build Guide

## Running site
### To build site static:
```bash
npm run build
```

### To run site in developer mode:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Running Hugo server separetely
### To run Hugo server in developer mode:
```bash
hugo server --disableFastRender --port=1333 --buildDrafts --buildFuture --noHTTPCache --cleanDestinationDir --panicOnWarning
```

- **`--disableFastRender`**  
Disables Hugo’s optimized incremental rebuild mode. Forces a full site rebuild on every file change instead of updating only affected parts.  
*Purpose:* ensures consistent builds during debugging of complex templates or logic.

- **`--port=1333`**  
Sets the local server port (default is 1313).

- **`--buildDrafts`**  
Includes content marked with `draft = true` in the front matter.  

- **`--buildFuture`**  
Publishes content with `publishDate` set in the future.  

- **`--noHTTPCache`**  
Disables HTTP caching on the server.  
*Purpose:* ensures fresh file versions are loaded on every request (critical for debugging).

- **`--cleanDestinationDir`**  
Deletes all files in the output directory (`public`) that aren’t generated by the current build before starting.  
*Purpose:* prevents accumulation of obsolete files from previous builds, ensuring a clean output.

- **`--panicOnWarning`**  
Treats all warnings as critical errors (panics), halting the build process.  
*Purpose:* strict quality control—helps immediately detect potential issues (e.g., deprecated configuration parameters).

### To build a static without starting a server:
```bash
hugo --gc --minify --cleanDestinationDir
```

- **`--gc`**  
Cleans Hugo’s internal resource cache.  
*Purpose:* Removes unused assets, reduces disk usage, ensures fresh builds.

- **`--minify`**  
Compresses HTML, CSS, JS, and other output files.  
*Purpose:* Decreases file sizes for faster loading and better performance.

- **`--cleanDestinationDir`**  
Deletes all files in the output directory (`public`) that aren’t generated by the current build before starting.  
*Purpose:* prevents accumulation of obsolete files from previous builds, ensuring a clean output.

# Links
[Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo_server/)
